# photodesc
A quick and easy way to add description and comment to digital photos.

This is the digital equivalent of writing a quick description on the back of a
printed photo. It allows you to embed a user entered short description and/or
longer comment in the exif data for a jpeg (and possibly other formats) file.
You can also alter the orientation (rotate the image), if necessary. The date
the photo was taken is also displayed (but cannot be changed), along with
the image itself.

Although many good programs exist to organise photos and add tags, decsriptions
etc, they mostly use a database approach, without embedding the information in
the actual picture file. This means if you decide to use a different photo
organiser, or corrupt the database, or copy the file somewhere else it may
be difficult or impossible to recoder the information.

Some programs (eg the excellent darkroom) give you limited access to some
exif data, I have not found one that I found satisfactory, so decided to write
my own. It works fine for me in its current form but may benefit from some
refinement (anyone?).

Unfortunately, creating this was only the first step. Most image viewers I am
aware of will not display the relevant exif data, or will display some of it
amongst all the other exif data. So I also wrote a photo viewer (photoView)
which displays an image with the date taken and descriptions as above.

I hope this is of use to someone - I certainly find it useful - and I of course
welcome constructive suggestions, contributions etc.

Technical stuff.
It's written as a qt project using qt creator. The exiv2 library is used for
access to the exif data. It works ok on my Fedora Linux system and I would
not expect any problems with other Linux distributions. It's probably
portable to Windows, but since I don't use Windows myself I'm not really
interested in doing it.

The user interface allows you to enter a one line brief description. This is
saved (when you click the save button) in the exif Image.ImageDescription field.
I use this for a general title (eg Arran Holiday). A longer multi-line comment
can also be entered. This gets saved in the exif Photo.UserComment field.

According to the exif spec I found, the Photo.UserComment has, in its first 8
bytes, a zero padded format name (eg ascii). But looking at files from one
of my cameras I found this field began with charset="Ascii", and that this part
is not displayed when using the gnome image viewer, so I adopted the same
strategy.



